Por-:MS 01² ossum. 152

him :in opportunity of putting together what might
fairly enough be called an original whole, of much
more beauty, and with much fewer blemissies, than
the Committee believes it now poffible for any per· ,

son, or combination of persons, to obtain.
TheCommittee thinks it discovers some difference
between the'style both of the original (one book of
which is given by Macpherson) and transsation of
Tenzora, and that of the transsation of Fingal, and
of the small portion of the original of that poem,
which'1t received from his executore. There is more
the appearance of fimplicity and originality m the
latter than m the former. Perhaps when he pub-³
lished Fingal, Mr Macpherson, unknown as an au-
thor, and obscure as a man, was more diffident,
more cautious, and more attentive, than when at a
subsequent period he published Temora, flussied with
the applause of the world, and distinguished as a
man of talents, and an author of high and rifing
reputation. Whoever will examine the original
prefiXed to some of the editions of the 7th book of
Temora, and compare it with the transsation, will,
in the opinion of the Committee, discover some im·
perfectione, some modernisms, (if the expreffion may
be allowed) in the Gaelic, which do not occur in the
Ἴ specimen of Fingal, given in the Appendix to this
Report; and, in the English, more of a loose and
inflated expreffion (which however was an error in-
to which Maepherson was apt to fall), than is to be
found in his earlier transsations. He had then at-
taine‘dsa' height which, to any man, but particularly
· L to

